Knative Backstage plugin article (#5897)
knative/docs: blog/docs/articles/knative-backstage-plugins.md

## The Event Mesh plugin

[The Event Mesh plugin](https://github.com/knative-extensions/backstage-plugins){:target="_blank"} is a Backstage plugin that allows you to view and manage Knative Eventing resources. The plugin talks to a special backend that runs in the Kubernetes cluster and communicates with the Kubernetes API server. 

This plugin leverages Backstage's [entity provider](https://backstage.io/docs/features/software-catalog/external-integrations/#custom-entity-providers){:target="_blank"} and [entity processor](https://backstage.io/docs/features/software-catalog/external-integrations/#custom-processors){:target="_blank"} concept. The entity provider is responsible for fetching the resources from the backend and the entity processor is responsible for processing the resources and making them available to the frontend. The provider is the part that talks to the custom backend.

> The plugin fetches Knative EventType, Broker, and Trigger resources from the backend. Actually, it doesn't fetch the resources as is since the Kubernetes resources are not particularly designed for using them in this kind of UI, but it fetches better suited representations of the resources where some fields are ignored, some aggregated, and some transformed.

Author: ```suggestion
The plugin fetches Knative EventType, Broker, and Trigger resources from the backend. Instead of directly fetching the raw Kubernetes resources, it gathers a more user-friendly representation of the data. This means certain fields are excluded, some are combined for clarity, and others are transformed to be easier to understand within this interface.
```

How the matching works is documented with diagrams in the [Event Mesh plugin README file](https://github.com/knative-extensions/backstage-plugins?tab=readme-ov-file#event-mesh-plugin-1){:target="_blank"}.

What's really cool about this integration is that Backstage's ability to show graphs. For example, you can see the relationships between EventTypes, Brokers, and Trigger subscribers in a graph.

![](/blog/articles/images/knative-backstage-plugins-02.png)
*Graphs in Backstage*

## Demo and quick start

If you would like to see the plugin in action, you can [install](https://github.com/knative-extensions/backstage-plugins?tab=readme-ov-file#running-the-backstage-plugin){:target="_blank"} the backend in your Kubernetes cluster and the plugin in your Backstage instance.

> However, if you want a quick look at the plugin, you can check out the [demo video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4h1j1v8KrY0){:target="_blank"}.

Author: ```suggestion
However, for a quicker look at the plugin, you can check out the [demo video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4h1j1v8KrY0){:target="_blank"}.
```

While Backstage is not designed as a next generation Kubernetes Dashboard, it can visualize and partially manage Knative resources. These resources would be read-only and focused on what's relevant to developers.

resources that are relevant to the developer persona.

## Plugins and backends

The plugins are the frontend part of the Backstage plugin. They are responsible for rendering the UI and communicating with the backend. The backend is responsible for talking to the Kubernetes API server and providing the necessary information to the frontend. Currently, we only have one plugin and it requires a backend to work. We think that most of the plugins we might provide in the future will require a backend-for-frontend to work.

## The Event Mesh plugin

[The Event Mesh plugin](https://github.com/knative-extensions/backstage-plugins){:target="_blank"} is a Backstage plugin that allows you to view and manage Knative Eventing resources. The plugin talks to a special backend that runs in the Kubernetes cluster and communicates with the Kubernetes API server. 

> The plugin is not designed to be the ultimate tool for managing Knative Eventing resources. It is designed to be a developer-friendly tool that allows developers to visualize and partially manage the resources that are relevant to them. Given these constraints, the plugin is designed to be read-only, at least for the time being.

Author: ```suggestion
```

# Knative and Backstage

**Author: Ali Ok, Principal Software Engineer @ Red Hat**

## What's the vision?

> [Backstage](https://backstage.io/) is a platform for building developer portals. It provides a unified way to manage and visualize the different resources that developers use in their daily work. 

Reviewer: Adding `{:target="_blank"}` at the end of the link will make this page open in a new tab, so that blog post tab won't be lost!

Just a nit, to have a better reader experience!
```suggestion
[Backstage](https://backstage.io/){:target="_blank"} is a platform for building developer portals. It provides a unified way to manage and visualize the different resources that developers use in their daily work. 
```

> However, Backstage is not your next generation Kubernetes dashboard. It is not designed to replace the Kubernetes dashboard or any other Kubernetes management tool.

Reviewer 2: I think we should drop the use of However as it is there twice in the first paragraph here and may be try something like "While Backstage is not designed as a next generation Kubernetes Dashboard , it can visualize and partially manage Knative resources.  These resources would be read-only and focused on what's relevant to developers.

> However, Backstage is not your next generation Kubernetes dashboard. It is not designed to replace the Kubernetes dashboard or any other Kubernetes management tool.

Author: ```suggestion
While Backstage is not designed as a next generation Kubernetes Dashboard, it can visualize and partially manage Knative resources. These resources would be read-only and focused on what's relevant to developers.
```

> With these in mind, our vision is to provide a way to visualize and partially manage Knative resources in Backstage. However, these are to be considered as read-only resources and we aim to show

Reviewer 2: I think we should drop the use of However as it is there twice in the first paragraph here and may be try something like "`While Backstage is not designed as a next generation Kubernetes Dashboard , it can visualize and partially manage Knative resources. These resources would be read-only and focused on what's relevant to developers.`

> With these in mind, our vision is to provide a way to visualize and partially manage Knative resources in Backstage. However, these are to be considered as read-only resources and we aim to show

Author: ```suggestion
```

resources that are relevant to the developer persona.

## Plugins and backends

> The plugins are the frontend part of the Backstage plugin. They are responsible for rendering the UI and communicating with the backend. The backend is responsible for talking to the Kubernetes API server and providing the necessary information to the frontend. Currently, we only have 1 plugin and it requires a backend to work. We think that most of the plugins we might provide in the future will require a backend-for-frontend to work.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The plugins are the frontend part of the Backstage plugin. They are responsible for rendering the UI and communicating with the backend. The backend is responsible for talking to the Kubernetes API server and providing the necessary information to the frontend. Currently, we only have one plugin and it requires a backend to work. We think that most of the plugins we might provide in the future will require a backend-for-frontend to work.
```

nit

## The Event Mesh plugin

> [The Event Mesh plugin](https://github.com/knative-extensions/backstage-plugins) is a Backstage plugin that allows you to view and manage Knative Eventing resources. The plugin talks to a special backend that runs in the Kubernetes cluster and communicates with the Kubernetes API server. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[The Event Mesh plugin](https://github.com/knative-extensions/backstage-plugins){:target="_blank"} is a Backstage plugin that allows you to view and manage Knative Eventing resources. The plugin talks to a special backend that runs in the Kubernetes cluster and communicates with the Kubernetes API server. 
```

> The plugin is not designed to be the ultimate tool for managing Knative Eventing resources. It is designed to be a developer-friendly tool that allows developers to visualize and partially manage the resources that are relevant to them. Given these constraints, the plugin is designed to be read-only, at least for the time being.

Reviewer 2: This whole part seems to be the repeat of earlier intro paragraph. Should we eliminate it?

> This plugin leverages Backstage's [entity provider](https://backstage.io/docs/features/software-catalog/external-integrations/#custom-entity-providers) and [entity processor](https://backstage.io/docs/features/software-catalog/external-integrations/#custom-processors) concept. The entity provider is responsible for fetching the resources from the backend and the entity processor is responsible for processing the resources and making them available to the frontend. The provider is the part that talks to the custom backend.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This plugin leverages Backstage's [entity provider](https://backstage.io/docs/features/software-catalog/external-integrations/#custom-entity-providers){:target="_blank"} and [entity processor](https://backstage.io/docs/features/software-catalog/external-integrations/#custom-processors){:target="_blank"} concept. The entity provider is responsible for fetching the resources from the backend and the entity processor is responsible for processing the resources and making them available to the frontend. The provider is the part that talks to the custom backend.
```

> Plugin fetches Knative EventType, Broker, and Trigger resources from the backend. Actually, it doesn't fetch the resources as is since the Kubernetes resources are not particularly designed for using them in this kind of UI, but it fetches better suited representations of the resources where some fields are ignored, some aggregated, and some transformed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The plugin fetches Knative EventType, Broker, and Trigger resources from the backend. Actually, it doesn't fetch the resources as is since the Kubernetes resources are not particularly designed for using them in this kind of UI, but it fetches better suited representations of the resources where some fields are ignored, some aggregated, and some transformed.
```
nit

> The plugin fetches Knative EventType, Broker, and Trigger resources from the backend. Actually, it doesn't fetch the resources as is since the Kubernetes resources are not particularly designed for using them in this kind of UI, but it fetches better suited representations of the resources where some fields are ignored, some aggregated, and some transformed.

Reviewer 2: This reads contradictory as first sentence said fetches and second says it doesn't fetch. :( 
` The plugin fetches Knative EventType, Broker, and Trigger resources from the backend. Instead of directly fetching the raw Kubernetes resources, it gathers a more user-friendly representation of the data. This means certain fields are excluded, some are combined for clarity, and others are transformed to be easier to understand within this interface.`

![](/blog/articles/images/knative-backstage-plugins-01.png)
*Knative EventTypes shown as APIs in Backstage*

> Knative Triggers can be pointing at any [Addressable](https://knative.dev/docs/concepts/duck-typing/#addressable) or at even a URL directly. Since Backstage side won't know how to handle these, the plugin will only show the trigger's subscriber if it is already registered in Backstage. For this relation, we use the [`backstage.io/kubernetes-id`](https://backstage.io/docs/features/kubernetes/configuration#surfacing-your-kubernetes-components-as-part-of-an-entity) annotation in the Backstage entity and the Kubernetes resource.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Knative Triggers can be pointing at any [Addressable](https://knative.dev/docs/concepts/duck-typing/#addressable) or at even an URL directly. Since Backstages side won't know how to handle these, the plugin will only show the trigger's subscriber if it is already registered in Backstage. For this relation, we use the [`backstage.io/kubernetes-id`](https://backstage.io/docs/features/kubernetes/configuration#surfacing-your-kubernetes-components-as-part-of-an-entity) annotation in the Backstage entity and the Kubernetes resource.
```

> Knative Triggers can be pointing at any [Addressable](https://knative.dev/docs/concepts/duck-typing/#addressable) or at even a URL directly. Since Backstage side won't know how to handle these, the plugin will only show the trigger's subscriber if it is already registered in Backstage. For this relation, we use the [`backstage.io/kubernetes-id`](https://backstage.io/docs/features/kubernetes/configuration#surfacing-your-kubernetes-components-as-part-of-an-entity) annotation in the Backstage entity and the Kubernetes resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Knative Triggers can be pointing at any [Addressable](https://knative.dev/docs/concepts/duck-typing/#addressable){:target="_blank"} or at even a URL directly. Since Backstage side won't know how to handle these, the plugin will only show the trigger's subscriber if it is already registered in Backstage. For this relation, we use the [`backstage.io/kubernetes-id`](https://backstage.io/docs/features/kubernetes/configuration#surfacing-your-kubernetes-components-as-part-of-an-entity){:target="_blank"} annotation in the Backstage entity and the Kubernetes resource.
```

Author: Thanks, appliec manually

> How the matching works is documented with diagrams in the [Event Mesh plugin README file](https://github.com/knative-extensions/backstage-plugins?tab=readme-ov-file#event-mesh-plugin-1).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How the matching works is documented with diagrams in the [Event Mesh plugin README file](https://github.com/knative-extensions/backstage-plugins?tab=readme-ov-file#event-mesh-plugin-1){:target="_blank"}.
```

What's really cool about this integration is that Backstage's ability to show graphs. For example, you can see the relationships between EventTypes, Brokers, and Trigger subscribers in a graph.

![](/blog/articles/images/knative-backstage-plugins-02.png)
*Graphs in Backstage*

## Demo and quick start

> If you would like to see the plugin in action, you can install the backend in your Kubernetes cluster and the plugin in your Backstage instance.

Reviewer 3: Do we have a link for some how-tos for this?

Reviewer: I think here is the link to the tutorial on how to install the demo https://github.com/aliok/knative-backstage-demo?tab=readme-ov-file#installation

And how to run the backend plugin
https://github.com/knative-extensions/backstage-plugins?tab=readme-ov-file#running-the-backstage-plugin

Author: Added a link now

> However, if you want a quick look at the plugin, you can check out the [demo video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4h1j1v8KrY0).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if you want a quick look at the plugin, you can check out the [demo video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4h1j1v8KrY0){:target="_blank"}.
```

> The demo video is recorded with the quick start available in Ali Ok's [demo repository](https://github.com/aliok/knative-backstage-demo).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The demo video is recorded with the quick start available in Ali Ok's [demo repository](https://github.com/aliok/knative-backstage-demo){:target="_blank"}.
```

> However, if you want a quick look at the plugin, you can check out the [demo video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4h1j1v8KrY0){:target="_blank"}.

Reviewer 2: For a quicker look, check out the demo video

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4h1j1v8KrY0?si=tzUmjcrYOfCy6E1H" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Contributions welcome

> We are looking for contributors to help us improve the plugin and the backend. If you are interested in contributing, please check out the [README file](https://github.com/knative-extensions/backstage-plugins) of the plugins repository. How to start the backend, how to install the plugin, and how to modify the plugin are all documented there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are looking for contributors to help us improve the plugin and the backend. If you are interested in contributing, please check out the [README file](https://github.com/knative-extensions/backstage-plugins){:target="_blank"} of the plugins repository. How to start the backend, how to install the plugin, and how to modify the plugin are all documented there.
```

> There are a few issues that are marked as good first issues and we are looking for help with them. If you are interested in contributing, please check out the [good first issues](https://github.com/knative-extensions/backstage-plugins/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a few issues that are marked as good first issues and we are looking for help with them. If you are interested in contributing, please check out the [good first issues](https://github.com/knative-extensions/backstage-plugins/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22){:target="_blank"}.
```

## What's next

> We are exploring the possibility of adding more functionality to integrate Backstage with Knative. One aspect here is reusing the [Knative Functions](https://knative.dev/docs/functions/) templates as [Backstage templates](https://backstage.io/docs/features/software-templates/adding-templates). This would allow developers to create new Knative Functions from Backstage and manage them from there, while having the compatibility with the [Func CLI](https://knative.dev/docs/functions/install-func/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are exploring the possibility of adding more functionality to integrate Backstage with Knative. One aspect here is reusing the [Knative Functions](https://knative.dev/docs/functions/){:target="_blank"} templates as [Backstage templates](https://backstage.io/docs/features/software-templates/adding-templates){:target="_blank"}. This would allow developers to create new Knative Functions from Backstage and manage them from there, while having the compatibility with the [Func CLI](https://knative.dev/docs/functions/install-func/){:target="_blank"}.
```

## Contact

> If you have any questions or feedback, please feel free to reach out to us. You can find us in the [CNCF Slack](https://cncf.slack.io) in the [#knative](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C04LGHDR9K7) channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have any questions or feedback, please feel free to reach out to us. You can find us in the [CNCF Slack](https://cncf.slack.io){:target="_blank"} in the [#knative](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C04LGHDR9K7){:target="_blank"} channel.
```

> If you have any questions or feedback, please feel free to reach out to us. You can find us in the [CNCF Slack](https://cncf.slack.io) in the [#knative](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C04LGHDR9K7) channel.

Author: Thanks, updated
